
{frontmatter}

# Introduction
Technology and in particular today's Public Cloud platforms are evolving fast at an incredible pace while books are rather static with "release cycles" measured in years. Many technology books are already outdated they day they are published. This begs the question why anyone would want to read let alone write a book about one of the fastest moving targets in the information technology industry: Microsoft Azure.

Having spent many years working with different cloud platforms it has become clear that the underlying principles and concepts of just about any cloud platform do not change half as fast as new services and features are added about almost every single day.  
These *core concepts* serve as the fundament for just about anything that's being built upon and offered by the platform. A thourough understanding and mastery of these concepts is crucial for successfully building and operating anything between a simple web application and the next bing thing with millions and millions of users spread around the globe. Many of those concepts are valid for years and are only very carefully touched by the product groups building the cloud platform.

This book will dive deep on the *core concepts* of Microsoft's public cloud offering Azure. You will learn how and why things are working the way they are, and how and why you should do things in a certain way when using the Azure platform. Once you got the hang of the underlying principles, and the "Azure way" of doing things, building, testing, monitoring, and operating will become much easier to reason about.

Over the past years I had the joy of working with many different kinds of customers in different verticals, ranging from small startups, to big enterprise players. As broad and diverse as this range is, as similiar are the questions and uncertainties each and everyone of my customers had when they started building and operating real-world workloads on Azure. This book is the result of my experience I have gained during the last years. Most of my Azure brain is in it. I hope that you will enjoy reading it and that it will help you in reaching your full potential with cloud-based solutions.        

## Who Should Read This Book
This book is intended for anyone who wants to get a thorough understanding about the core concepts of Microsoft Azure. If you have a basic knowledge, that will help but it’s not a requirement. We start off with the geography-based architecture of the Azure platform, and the concepts behind our different cloud environments aka sovereign clouds. After that we will look at the different concepts underpinning resource management, resource monitoring, and user and rights management. We will the continue this book with a deep discussion of the principles of our infrastructure services in the area of compute, storage, and network which are the fundamental building blocks of just about any application on Azure. Finally, we will devote the last chapter to the core concepts of Azure's serverless offering.

If you are an architect, a consultant, an administrator, or really anyone who just wants a better knowledge of the Azure core concepts, this book is for you. I do not make any assumptions regarding the reader.

## What's Inside
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consetetur sadipscing elitr, sed diam nonumy eirmod tempor invidunt ut labore et dolore magna aliquyam erat, sed diam voluptua. At vero eos et accusam et justo duo dolores et ea rebum. Stet clita kasd gubergren, no sea takimata sanctus est Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet. Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consetetur sadipscing elitr, sed diam nonumy eirmod tempor invidunt ut labore et dolore magna aliquyam erat, sed diam voluptua. At vero eos et accusam et justo duo dolores et ea rebum. Stet clita kasd gubergren, no sea takimata sanctus est Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet.